# rrt
Fundamental path finding using Rapidly Exploring Random Trees

RRT, or Rapidly Exploring Random Tree is an algorithm designed to search spaces by by building a space-filling tree. The tree is built by adding nodes that are generated by randomly sampling points in the search-space. More information about the algorithm itself can be found [here](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Rapidly-exploring_random_tree).

To run this example, simply run and compile the C++ code in the `/src` directory. In a new terminal, run the Python(3) code in the `/scripts` directory.

This implementation of the algorithm involves 3 major classes, which are:
- `Node`: Single vertex in the main tree
- `rrt_tree`: Contains all the functionality associated with creating/modifying/adding new nodes
- `Map`: Information about the start position, target position, obstacle position and dimensions etc.

This implementation of the algorithm starts by sampling a random point in space `q_rand`, given by the `generateRandomConfig()` method in the `rrt_tree` class.

This is followed by the `nearestVertex()` method that assigns `q_near` to the vertex of the graph closest to `q_rand`.

The `newConfiguration()` method then returns the point projected from `q_near` to `q_rand` at `MAX_STEP_LENGTH` distance, which is stored in `q_new`. In case this new configuration lies on an obstacle, or on an existing vertex, or the path from `q_near` to `q_new` crosses an obstacle, the value in `q_new` is of `ILLEGAL_NODE`, in which case the iteration is repeated for a different randomly sampled point.

`q_new` is then added to the main tree through the `addNode()` method. An edge is created from `q_new`, to `q_near`, where `q_near` is parent to `q_new`.

The newly added node is then appended to a `tree.csv` file through the `writeNodeToCSV()` method for visualisation using Python.
